Blog: Postmortem of scala/scala3#24994 (#1879)
scala/scala-lang: _posts/2026-01-29-post-mortem-3.8.0.md

---
category: blog
permalink: /blog/post-mortem-3.8.0.html
redirect_from: /news/post-mortem-3.8.0.html
title: "Postmortem of scala/scala3#24994"
by: Scala Core Team
---

Incident Date: _January 13th, 2026_  
Nature of the incident: _Scala 3.8.0 artifacts were released with inline references to private fields which 
were not reachable_

## The TL;DR
Scala 3.8.0 artifacts were released with inline references to private fields in its standard library which 
were not reachable. The bug, while severe, would only affect a very limited set of users. 
A hotfix was implemented and included in a subsequent 3.8.1 release. 
Both releases were then announced simultaneously 
(link to the announcement can be found [here](https://scala-lang.org/news/3.8/)).

## Recommendations
- Upgrade directly to Scala 3.8.1, or 3.8.2 once it becomes available. 
- Scala 3.8.0 is discouraged from being used because of the issue described in this document, 

>   but has not been cancelled.

Author: done

> - The impact of the incident is limited and should not be visible to most users.

Author: done

## Timeline

On Tuesday, 13th of January 2026 Scala 3.8.0 artifacts were published with a (at the time unknown) 
contract-breaking bug in its bytecode. The issue only got reported on Thursday, 15th of January, 
in the `scalacenter/sbt-missinglink` SBT plugin bug tracker 
under [scalacenter/sbt-missinglink#54](https://github.com/scalacenter/sbt-missinglink/issues/54). 
This was re-raised in the Scala 3 compiler bug tracker a day later, on Friday, 16th of January, 
at [scala/scala3#24994](https://github.com/scala/scala3/issues/24994). The issue was identified as severe enough 
to be treated as an incident and postpone the release announcement until due investigation. 
A hotfix was proposed on Monday, 19th of January 
under [scala/scala3#25008](https://github.com/scala/scala3/pull/25008) and then merged on the next day, 
Tuesday, 20th of January.

It was decided by [Scala Core Team](https://www.scala-lang.org/scala-core/) that while the bug could be severe, 

> it would affect a very limited number of users, and so, Scala 3.8.0 would not have to be cancelled altogether. 

Reviewer: Literally what I wrote?
```suggestion
The [Scala Core Team](https://www.scala-lang.org/scala-core/) decided not to cancel Scala 3.8.0.
While the bug is severe, it would affect a very limited number of users.
Moreover, libraries successfully compiled and published with 3.8.0 are not corrupted and can safely be used in the ecosystem.
```
